Let's go through how this works in practice.
Imagine that I have a functional program and I have
an array that I need to update and add a new value to.
To keep my variables immutable,
I would need to make a copy of the first array and add my new value to that copy.
In this case, we would end up with two As,
two Bs, two Cs,
and a new D in memory.
This is only compounded if I need to make additional changes later as seen in v3 and v4.
Not very efficient and probably slow.
What if instead of making so many copies of my original variable,
we broke the array up into its individual parts.
Instead of thinking of an array as containing many values,
what if it was just a list of references to value stored in a data tree.
Then later when I need to update my array,
I can reference back to those same values.
This will save a lot of space and time.
Persistent data structures are immutable because
nothing about the original array has been updated.
If we store all the previous references,
then we also can remember the previous values.
If a data structure remembers every previous version
of a value and allows us to go back to that version and edit it,
it's called fully persistent.
But if we can only view the previous version,
it's called partially persistent.
In the next section, you'll see how
persistent data structures can be used in JavaScript with ImmutableJS.